README.rst, before:

trade
=====
| A paradigm for financial apps.
| Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Rafael da Silva Rocha
| https://github.com/rochars/trade

--------------

| |Version| |Documentation|
| |Build| |Windows Build| |Coverage Status| |Scrutinizer| |cii|


Installation
------------

	pip install trade


trade
-----
**trade** implements a paradigm for financial apps where the operations
themselves (called *occurrences*) are objects responsible for updating
the state of an asset holder every time they occur.

The asset holder state at a given timestamp may be loaded from a source
(like a database) and then updated with a series of occurrences - raw 
operation data loaded as *Occurrence* objects. This outputs a new state
for the *Holder*.

**trade** offers four classes: *Holder*, *Occurrence*, *Subject* and *Context*
and defines the basic structure for a context-independent financial app. These
classes should be extended according to the needs of the app.


It uses the concept of *holders*, *subjects*, *occurrences* and *contexts*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
A *subject* is anything that can be traded.

A *holder* is someone who owns subjects.

A *holder* state is updated by *occurrences*.

*Occurrences* may happen alone or in *contexts*.


A *subject* is anything that can be traded
------------------------------------------
A *subject* may be the share of a corporation, livestock and so on.


A *holder* is a entity that owns subjects
-----------------------------------------
A *holder* owns subjects. The *holder* state is updated by occurrences.
A holder may hold none or many subjects.


*Occurrences* happen with subjects and change the state of the *holder*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
A *occurrence* may be caused by the *holder*, like the purchase of units of some
*subject*. They can also represent other events, like a stock split.
In both cases they should change the state of the *holder*.


A *context* may have its own rules
----------------------------------
*Contexts* are groups of occurrences.

*Contexts* are used to pre-process occurrences before informing them to a *holder*.

A *context* may be a situation where daytrades should be identified, for example.

A *context* may also involve taxes and other costs altering the details of the occurrences.


Extending the framework
-----------------------
**trade** should be extended with new types of *occurrences*, *subjects* and *context rules*.

The *holder* state signature can be defined according to the needs of the application.


Live sample app
---------------

**The sample app is not working right now (2018-08-08).**

**A peak of interest in this app made the server costs too high for me. I'm working on a JavaScript implementation that will be suitable for browsers and Node.js. The sample app will be back again soon, in your browser. Check this repo for updates.**

It used to be like this:

This is a **sample app** built with **trade**. It runs as a service.

The input is a JSON with *occurrences* and a initial state
for the *holder*.

The sample app have *context tasks* to **identify daytrades** and more.

The service also calculates the **profits** and **losses** from the
occurrences and **groups the results** by asset.

The output is the *holder* state as a JSON.


Use:
----

.. code:: python

	from trade.holder import Holder
	from trade.occurrence import Occurrence
	from trade.subject import Subject

	# create a holder
	holder = Holder()

	# define some subject
	some_asset = Subject('AST1')

	# create an occurrence with that subject.
	# In this example, a purchase of 100 units of the asset,
	# for the value of $20.
	some_occurrence = Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-02',
			{
				"quantity": 100,
				"value": 20
			}
		)

	# pass it to the holder
	holder.trade(some_occurrence)

	# check the holder state:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.0, 'quantity': 100}

Updating the holder state with a new occurrence:

.. code:: python

	# create some other occurrence with that subject.
	# In this example, a sale of 20 units of the asset,
	# for the value of $30.
	holder.trade(Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-03',
			{
				"quantity": -20,
				"value": 30
			}
		))

	# check the holder state. It should show a change in quantity
	# and some profit:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.0, 'quantity': 80}

More occurrences:

.. code:: python

	# create some other occurrence with that subject.
	# Now a purchase of 10 units of the asset, for the
	# value of $20.
	holder.trade(Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-04',
			{
				"quantity": 10,
				"value": 25
			}
		))

	# check the holder state. It should show a change in quantity
	# and in the value of the subject:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.555555555555557, 'quantity': 90}


Contributing
------------
**trade** welcomes all contributions from anyone willing to work in good faith with other contributors and the community. No contribution is too small and all contributions are valued.

See CONTRIBUTING.rst for information about how to contribute to this project.


License
-------
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Rafael da Silva Rocha

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
“Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


.. |Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/trade.svg?style=for-the-badge
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/trade/
.. |Documentation| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/API-DOCS-blue.png?style=for-the-badge
   :target: http://trade.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

.. |Build| image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/rochars/trade.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/rochars/trade
.. |Windows Build| image:: https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/rochars/trade.svg?logo=appveyor&style=flat-square
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rochars/trade
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/rochars/trade/master.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/rochars/trade?branch=master
.. |Scrutinizer| image:: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/rochars/trade.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/rochars/trade/
.. |cii| image:: https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1890/badge
   :target: https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1890

Commit message:

Add README notice about project being on hold.

README.rst, after:

trade
=====
| A paradigm for financial apps.
| Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Rafael da Silva Rocha
| https://github.com/rochars/trade

--------------

| |Version| |Documentation|
| |Build| |Windows Build| |Coverage Status| |Scrutinizer| |cii|


Notice
------
My country, Brazil, is under a fascist government that is hunting and killing oppositors. I've been threatened too and am away from dev. I'll be back. #EleNão


Installation
------------

	pip install trade


trade
-----
**trade** implements a paradigm for financial apps where the operations
themselves (called *occurrences*) are objects responsible for updating
the state of an asset holder every time they occur.

The asset holder state at a given timestamp may be loaded from a source
(like a database) and then updated with a series of occurrences - raw 
operation data loaded as *Occurrence* objects. This outputs a new state
for the *Holder*.

**trade** offers four classes: *Holder*, *Occurrence*, *Subject* and *Context*
and defines the basic structure for a context-independent financial app. These
classes should be extended according to the needs of the app.


It uses the concept of *holders*, *subjects*, *occurrences* and *contexts*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
A *subject* is anything that can be traded.

A *holder* is someone who owns subjects.

A *holder* state is updated by *occurrences*.

*Occurrences* may happen alone or in *contexts*.


A *subject* is anything that can be traded
------------------------------------------
A *subject* may be the share of a corporation, livestock and so on.


A *holder* is a entity that owns subjects
-----------------------------------------
A *holder* owns subjects. The *holder* state is updated by occurrences.
A holder may hold none or many subjects.


*Occurrences* happen with subjects and change the state of the *holder*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
A *occurrence* may be caused by the *holder*, like the purchase of units of some
*subject*. They can also represent other events, like a stock split.
In both cases they should change the state of the *holder*.


A *context* may have its own rules
----------------------------------
*Contexts* are groups of occurrences.

*Contexts* are used to pre-process occurrences before informing them to a *holder*.

A *context* may be a situation where daytrades should be identified, for example.

A *context* may also involve taxes and other costs altering the details of the occurrences.


Extending the framework
-----------------------
**trade** should be extended with new types of *occurrences*, *subjects* and *context rules*.

The *holder* state signature can be defined according to the needs of the application.


Live sample app
---------------

**The sample app is not working right now (2018-08-08).**

**A peak of interest in this app made the server costs too high for me. I'm working on a JavaScript implementation that will be suitable for browsers and Node.js. The sample app will be back again soon, in your browser. Check this repo for updates.**

It used to be like this:

This is a **sample app** built with **trade**. It runs as a service.

The input is a JSON with *occurrences* and a initial state
for the *holder*.

The sample app have *context tasks* to **identify daytrades** and more.

The service also calculates the **profits** and **losses** from the
occurrences and **groups the results** by asset.

The output is the *holder* state as a JSON.


Use:
----

.. code:: python

	from trade.holder import Holder
	from trade.occurrence import Occurrence
	from trade.subject import Subject

	# create a holder
	holder = Holder()

	# define some subject
	some_asset = Subject('AST1')

	# create an occurrence with that subject.
	# In this example, a purchase of 100 units of the asset,
	# for the value of $20.
	some_occurrence = Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-02',
			{
				"quantity": 100,
				"value": 20
			}
		)

	# pass it to the holder
	holder.trade(some_occurrence)

	# check the holder state:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.0, 'quantity': 100}

Updating the holder state with a new occurrence:

.. code:: python

	# create some other occurrence with that subject.
	# In this example, a sale of 20 units of the asset,
	# for the value of $30.
	holder.trade(Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-03',
			{
				"quantity": -20,
				"value": 30
			}
		))

	# check the holder state. It should show a change in quantity
	# and some profit:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.0, 'quantity': 80}

More occurrences:

.. code:: python

	# create some other occurrence with that subject.
	# Now a purchase of 10 units of the asset, for the
	# value of $20.
	holder.trade(Occurrence(
			some_asset,
			'2018-01-04',
			{
				"quantity": 10,
				"value": 25
			}
		))

	# check the holder state. It should show a change in quantity
	# and in the value of the subject:
	for subject, state in holder.state.items():
		print(subject)
		print(state)
	# AST1
	# {'value': 20.555555555555557, 'quantity': 90}


Contributing
------------
**trade** welcomes all contributions from anyone willing to work in good faith with other contributors and the community. No contribution is too small and all contributions are valued.

See CONTRIBUTING.rst for information about how to contribute to this project.


License
-------
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Rafael da Silva Rocha

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
“Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


.. |Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/trade.svg?style=for-the-badge
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/trade/
.. |Documentation| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/API-DOCS-blue.png?style=for-the-badge
   :target: http://trade.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

.. |Build| image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/rochars/trade.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/rochars/trade
.. |Windows Build| image:: https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/rochars/trade.svg?logo=appveyor&style=flat-square
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rochars/trade
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/rochars/trade/master.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/rochars/trade?branch=master
.. |Scrutinizer| image:: https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/rochars/trade.svg?style=flat-square
   :target: https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/rochars/trade/
.. |cii| image:: https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1890/badge
   :target: https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1890
